# POMOTASKS
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/J4UPU5k2Mag?si=P0pBHXq5VTuTKiuU
#### Name: Felipe Silva Vieira
#### Location: Maringá, Brazil
#### Description: An android app to keep track of your schedule and organize it in blocks of time

#### Introduction

PomoTasks is a fusion of the Pomodoro Timer and a task list, allowing you to organize your routine in blocks of time. It is a single-screen app featuring a central clock that enables you to set and control your timer (pause and play). Below the central clock, there is a task list where you can mark tasks as completed, delete, modify, and permanently remove them from storage.

#### Project Folders

Most folders are generated by Android Studio, and **Gradle** files are used for managing dependencies. The folder used to create files and edit code is "/app/src/main/java/com/fesvieira/pomotasks."

##### Alarm Manager

In the "alarmmanager" folder, there are four files. AlarmItem is a data class designed to organize alarms and insert all necessary information such as alarm timer, IDs, and extra content if needed. AlarmReceiver is a Broadcast Receiver that will manage the actions performed when some alarm is triggered. AlarmScheduler is an interface to organize methods necessary for managing alarms. AndroidAlarmScheduler is the implementation of AlarmScheduler, utilizing the Android Alarm Manager library to schedule alarms in the background.

##### Data

In the "data" folder, there are generic data structures used throughout the app. In this case, I only needed Task.kt, which is the Task entity needed to handle tasks. It is marked as an Entity because it will be the data for the app database. The Task.kt attributes would be the same as those needed when creating a dataset with sqlite3 using `CREATE TABLE`.

##### DI (Dependency Inject)

In the Android environment, we can have large projects, and that can make dependencies complex. Therefore, there are automated dependency managers such as Dagger Hilt, where we can declare dependencies that will be used throughout the project.

##### Helpers

The Helpers folder is for utilities where I created two extensions. `formatToString` is a simple `String` extension used to format time displayed in the central clock. `isAllowedTo` is an extension to check for permissions in Android, such as notifications, camera, and storage.

##### Repositories

The Repositories folder is dedicated to database management. TaskDao is the Task Data Access Object, which contains all operations available in the database. It is possible to create custom SQL commands there and use them in the app. TaskDatabase is the database class required for the Android library (called Room). TaskRepository is an interface with DAO functions; there are no SQL queries there. It is best practice to implement repositories for the app and for tests. TaskRepositoryImpl is the implementation of TaskRepository; it will call the functions in TaskDao.

UserPreferencesRepository is used to persist simple settings inside the app, like timer status; it is not part of the Tasks database.

##### UI Components

In the components folder, we have important pieces of UI that can be written outside of the MainScreen function to make the code cleaner. AppFloatActionButton is the button to add tasks in the app. ClockComponent is the central clock UI and state logic. TaskCard is the UI for the cards displaying task names and checkboxes. TaskEditDialog is where you can create or edit tasks. TimerPickerComponent is the text field that appears when you stop the timer.

##### UI Screens

In this app, we have only the MainScreen, which is the core of the app UI. In Main Screen, how components should display and behave is defined; it organizes the UI state and data.

##### Theme

In the theme folder, there are files related to the app customization. The Color file will store any custom colors; Theme will configure how the colors should be applied in the app and handle light and dark mode. Type is for text styles.

##### Other files

In the project folder, there are also important files. MainActivity is where the app starts, and it will handle its lifecycle, determining which screen or fragment the app should open. PomodoroViewModel is the core of app logic, with implemented functions to handle tasks, clock state, databases, user preferences, and alarms. PomoTaksApplication is necessary for dependency injection, identifying the module as an application, handling its context, and injecting necessary dependencies.
